# SampleSuperstore-EDA-and-Modelling

SampleSuperstore

Exploratory Data Analysis on a retail dataset. PowerBI was used for data visualizations. 
There are quite a few weak areas which could make more profit or produce lesser loss. Before we begin to gather insights, we should know and understand the data. The first figure shows the states and regions to which our data belongs to. We visualize State-wise Profit and Loss; highest profit belongs to California and the greatest loss to Texas. From the last figure of first row, we know that there are three categories of the items sold, Technology, Furniture and Office Supplies, provided lowest to highest Discount but getting highest to lowest Sale respectively.Picture2 From the first figure, we can see profit/loss produced by each state in the three categories; Texas produces greatest loss in Office Supplies whereas California produces highest profit in the same. Shipment mode also affects the profit as can be seen in the first graph of second row; Same-day ship mode produces a loss in the Southern region. We can also see the effect of quantity on ship mode in the first graph of third row; as the quantity increases, there is a drop in profit. The last two graphs of second row show that there are three segments of our customers, Consumer,Corporate and Home Office. We have visualized the profit for each of these segments in the three categories and also plotted segment-wise profit for each state on the map. The last graph shows the profit/loss for the sub-categories of the three categories; Copiers in Technology has the highest profit and Tables in Furniture have the greatest loss.

Weak areas: Discounts and other business tactics should be used according to the stats; the states with only demands for one of the segments should be given offers according to their interests eg, HomeOffice produces the least profit for Furniture. The categories producing losses or less profits in certain states should be dealt with eg, in Texas,Ohio, Pennsylvania etc. The sub-categories producing losses like Tables, Bookcases, Supplies as well as. Same-day shipment mode for South region should be stopped.
